# 0x16. C - Simple Shell (HSH)
This project consists of a basic command interpreter created in C language with several features; its development was part of ALX Software Engineering coding program.

## Description
HSH Simple Shell is a simple UNIX command language interpreter that reads commands from either a file or standard input and executes them.

## Requirements
- Allowed editors: vi, vim, emacs
- All your files will be compiled on Ubuntu 20.04 LTS using gcc, using the options -Wall -Werror -Wextra -pedantic -std=gnu89
- All your files should end with a new line
- A README.md file, at the root of the folder of the project is mandatory
- Your code should use the Betty style. It will be checked using betty-style.pl and betty-doc.pl
- Your shell should not have any memory leaks
- No more than 5 functions per file
- All your header files should be include guarded
- Use system calls only when you need to (why?)
- Write a README with the description of your project
- You should have an AUTHORS file at the root of your repository, listing all individuals having contributed content to the repository. Format, see Docker

### Allowed functions: 
-   `access` (man 2 access)
-   `chdir` (man 2 chdir)
-   `close` (man 2 close)
-   `closedir` (man 3 closedir)
-   `execve` (man 2 execve)
-   `exit` (man 3 exit)
-   `_exit` (man 2 _exit)
-   `fflush` (man 3 fflush)
-   `fork` (man 2 fork)
-   `free` (man 3 free)
-   `getcwd` (man 3 getcwd)
-   `getline` (man 3 getline)
-   `getpid` (man 2 getpid)
-   `isatty` (man 3 isatty)
-   `kill` (man 2 kill)
-   `malloc` (man 3 malloc)
-   `open` (man 2 open)
-   `opendir` (man 3 opendir)
-   `perror` (man 3 perror)
-   `read` (man 2 read)
-   `readdir` (man 3 readdir)
-   `signal` (man 2 signal)
-   `stat` (__xstat) (man 2 stat)
-   `lstat` (__lxstat) (man 2 lstat)
-   `fstat` (__fxstat) (man 2 fstat)
-   `strtok` (man 3 strtok)
-   `wait` (man 2 wait)
-   `waitpid` (man 2 waitpid)
-   `wait3` (man 2 wait3)
-   `wait4` (man 2 wait4)
-   `write` (man 2 write)

## How It Works

The shell program implemented in this code reads input from the user, parses it, and executes the appropriate commands. It is designed to mimic the functionality of the bash shell. 

When the program starts, it sets up a signal handler to catch the SIGINT signal (generated by pressing Ctrl+C). It then initializes various variables and structures, including the shell environment, the input buffer, and the command line arguments.

The program then enters a loop that reads input from the user, tokenizes it into separate commands, and executes them. Within the loop, each command is first checked to see if it is a built-in shell command, such as "exit" or "ls". If it is, the corresponding function is called. If not, the program searches for the command in the directories listed in the PATH environment variable and executes it if found.

After executing each command, the program frees any dynamically allocated memory and repeats the loop. If the input is received from a pipe, the program skips printing the "$ " prompt before each command.

Once the loop ends, the program frees all allocated memory and exits with the last command's exit status as its return value.

The shell program also includes various helper functions for handling strings, allocating memory, and searching for and executing commands.


### Installation
1. Simply clone the repo below 

```
https://github.com/Joe-Chege/simple_shell.git
```
2. Compile the program with the following:

```
gcc -Wall -Werror -Wextra -pedantic *.c -o hsh
```
By default, the name of the executable will be hsh, but you can change it if you desire to do so.

3. Execution:

Once the program is compiled you will need to execute the shell with the following code:


#### Interactive mode:
```
$ ./hsh
```

#### Non-interactive mode:
```
$ echo "command" | ./hsh
```
## Required:

* Operating System: [Ubuntu 14.04 LTS](http://releases.ubuntu.com/14.04/)

* Compiler: [GCC 4.8.4](https://gcc.gnu.org/gcc-4.8/)


## Acknowledgments

- ALX Community
- Hat tip to anyone whose code was used

## Authors:

- *Mitchell Wachera* - [@mitchellshera](https://github.com/mitchellshera) 
- *Joe Chege*  - [@Joe-Chege](https://github.com/joechege)
